well let's bring in Omar shaid he is the
Israel and Palestine director at Human
Rights Watch and he's joining us live
from Chicago thank you very much for
your time Mr shaid I believe that you
could hear that interview with Dr Malla
Lati in shiffer
hospital what do you make of what is
happening in gaza's largest
hospital it's just unfathomable to be
seeing a situation in which gaza's
hospitals are under such sustained
systematic assault hospitals have
special protections under International
humanitarian law doctors patients nurses
ambulances must be protected and allowed
to do their work under all circumstances
I can't imagine the situation that
doctors are under given the number of
injuries they're dealing with operating
without fuel so without electricity uh
without water without medical supplies
you know you're having a situation in
these hospitals now were you know bodies
of patients um who have died as a result
of the uh Israeli blockade are not able
to be properly buried um these are all
acts that are unlawful under
International humanitarian law to impose
Collective punishment on the civilian
population to block life-saving Aid
unlawful strikes on hospitals all raise
significant concern and and and there's
really grave concern might happen and
hours ahead absolutely not just not
permitted under international law but
our indeed war crimes under
international law we heard from the
Israeli military spokesperson uh on
Saturday night and he said that
hospitals in Gaza are legitimate targets
and that Hamas has made them legitimate
targets because they carry out
operations from these hospitals from
these medical facilities your
organization has recently said that you
have not been able to corroborate
Israel's claims that Hamas uses these
hospitals that's correct the Israel
government has put forward no evidence
that would justify stripping hospitals
of the special protections they have
under International humanitarian law and
even if the Israeli government's
evidence was accurate and again we
haven't seen evidence that would support
that International humanitarian law also
only allows attacking hospitals if room
is made for safe evacuation and the
reality here is there is no safe place
to go in Gaza and no reliably secure way
to get anywhere so that means that even
if one accepts the Israeli government's
evidence as face value it wouldn't
justify attacking a hospital because of
the need to protect patients doctors and
others and that's that's I know
something that Human Rights Watch has
also said no evidence put forward would
justify depriving hospitals ambulances
of their protected
status absolutely and I think it's again
worth noting that um even if you
evacuate people and even if you can meet
the high threshold to attack hospitals
on International humanitarian law
hospitals cannot be a free fire zone the
people who are not able or choose not to
flee retain the protections of
international humanitarian law against
disproportionate indiscriminate attacks
and again it's important to note that
the risk of disproportion attacks are
heightened at hospitals because even a
relatively minor attack could life
altering uh consequences for the
treatment of patients all these things
put together point a very Grim picture
unlawful attacks weeks without
electricity without food without U ma
medical supplies lives are being lost by
the minute and the world really needs to
act to prevent further Mass atrocities
that is the Israel and Palestine
director at Human Rights Watch omad
Shakir joining us live from Chicago
thank you very much for your on this we
appreciate
it thank you